Below is a complete Jira Summary, Detailed Description, and Worklog Comment for your use.
This covers Jira → Jenkins integration process in on-premises, the R&D activities, and the PCR whitelisting process.

You can directly paste this into your Jira ticket.

⸻

✅ JIRA SUMMARY

Implementation of Jira-to-Jenkins Integration and Whitelisting Process in On-Premises Environment

⸻

✅ JIRA DETAILED DESCRIPTION

1. Objective

To integrate Jira with our on-premises Jenkins environment to enable automated build triggers based on Jira issue updates (e.g., transitioning to “Ready for Deployment”), and to complete the required network whitelisting through PCR.

⸻

2. Jira → Jenkins Integration Approach (On-Premises)

A. Jenkins Configuration
	1.	Installed the Jira Trigger Plugin in the on-prem Jenkins master.
	2.	Configured Jira site URL, credentials, and API token within Jenkins global settings.
	3.	Added Jira trigger configuration in required Jenkins pipeline jobs to listen for specific Jira events (example: issue status change, label update, comment text match).
	4.	Mapped the Jira issue key to the Jenkins environment variable ($JiraIssueKey) for downstream usage in build and deployment stages.

⸻

B. Jira Configuration
	1.	Validated Jira project workflow states used for deployments (AT → UAT → Preprod → Prod).
	2.	Verified webhook triggering permissions and ensured that Jira can send event notifications to the Jenkins server.
	3.	Confirmed required custom fields and transitions for deployment tracking.

⸻

C. On-Premises Network Constraints
	•	Since both Jira and Jenkins are hosted on-premises with restricted inter-network communication, Jira webhooks were not reachable initially from Jenkins.
	•	Required firewall-level communication enabling.

⸻

3. PCR Whitelisting Process

To establish connectivity between Jira and Jenkins:
	1.	Raised a PCR request to whitelist the Jenkins production slave IP and Jenkins master IP with the Jira UAT and Prod servers.
	2.	Provided the following details in the PCR:
	•	Source and Destination IPs
	•	Ports required (HTTPS 443)
	•	Purpose: Jira-to-Jenkins webhook integration
	•	Security justification
	3.	Awaited approval from InfoSec and Network teams.
	4.	Post-approval, connectivity was tested using:
	•	curl -vk https://<jenkins-master>
	•	Testing webhook delivery from Jira to Jenkins

⸻

4. R&D (Research and Development Activities)
	1.	Analysed Jira Trigger plugin behavior in mixed environments (on-prem → on-prem, on-prem → cloud).
	2.	Tested multiple Jenkins trigger conditions:
	•	Jira status change triggers
	•	Comment-based triggers (e.g., “/deploy”)
	•	Label-based triggers
	3.	Performed certificate validation tests:
	•	Identified Jenkins not trusting Jira SSL certificate
	•	Exported and imported Jira’s certificate into Jenkins truststore
	4.	Validated multiple deployment scenarios across environments (AT → Preprod → Prod) to ensure seamless behavior.

⸻

5. Current Status
	•	Jira-to-Jenkins integration established successfully in AT environment.
	•	Whitelisting PCR submitted and pending final approval.
	•	Additional testing is underway before rolling out to Preprod and Prod environments.

⸻

✅ WORKLOG COMMENT (Ready to Paste)

Worklog – R&D, Integration Testing & PCR Coordination

Performed detailed R&D on Jira-to-Jenkins integration for on-premises setup. Installed and configured Jira Trigger Plugin in Jenkins and validated plugin compatibility. Investigated SSL certificate trust issues and exported the expired/required Jira certificate for truststore import into Jenkins.

Tested webhook communication between Jira and Jenkins; identified network restrictions preventing connectivity. Raised a PCR to whitelist Jenkins and Jira servers for bidirectional communication (HTTPS port 443). Coordinated with the network team for approvals and testing.

Executed multiple test cycles covering Jira status triggers, comment triggers, and deployment workflow validation. Conducted end-to-end AT build trigger testing successfully and prepared documentation for next phases (Preprod & Prod).

⸻

If you want, I can also prepare:

✅ Deployment workflow diagram
✅ Standard Jira deployment ticket template
✅ End-to-end documentation (PDF / PPT)
Just tell me!
